Sohail Abbas, (born 9 June 1977) is a former professional field hockey player from Pakistan who played as a full-back for the Pakistan men's national field hockey team. Regarded as one of the greatest players of all time, he is the all-time second highest goal scorer in international field hockey and highest goal scorer in modern field hockey (artificial turf) with 348 international goals. A drag-flick specialist noted for his lethal flicks with great accuracy and speed in front of goal from penalty corners, he is widely regarded as the 'King of the drag flick'.
Abbas started his professional career in Pakistan and played professional hockey in Malaysia, Netherlands, Germany and India in his career most notably for Dutch side HC Rotterdam. After representing Pakistan at junior levels Abbas made his international debut in the Test series against India in February 1998. He scored his first senior international goal in the second match of the series in a 2–1 win. Abbas has 315 caps for Pakistan and in which he scored 348 goals including 21 hat-tricks an international record. He has represented his country at 1998, 2002, 2006 and 2010 FIH Hockey World Cups and the 2000, 2004 and 2012 Summer Olympics being the top scorer for Pakistan at both the World Cups and Olympics.


== Early life ==
Born at Karachi's Holy Family Hospital, Soldier Bazaar on 9 June 1977, Sohail is a former pupil of Karachi's Habib Public School, the school of many other hockey stars. In fact, it has been rightly remarked that hockey is taught as a subject in this school.
He came from a sporting family; his father, Syed Iftikhar Hussain, was a former first-class cricketer. He represented Karachi as well as Pak Crescent Club, famous for producing Zaheer Abbas. Abbas is eldest of three brothers. Raheel Abbas, his younger brother, is also former professional first-class cricketer. Sohail has often said that his inspiration came from his uncle, Safdar Abbas, a left-winger who represented Pakistan from 1973 to 1981 where he scored against Argentina during the 1973 World Cup as a 16-year-old boy. Abbas is keen to emphasize the part played by Safdar, who, Abbas says, inspired him as a youngster.
Abbas started playing hockey for his school and later for his college. In the beginning he played as a forward but due to his physical built and unsatisfactory performance his youth coach moved him in the defense. Dejected by this Abbas started practicing his drag-flick abilities to keep the scoring aspect of his game. Before him Pakistan played a brand of hockey that was known for its speedy forwards who created goal scoring chances from their technique not penalty-corner specialists like the European style. He started practicing solely on drag-flicks from watching old video tapes of former players and would spend hours on drag-flicks even after match practice.


== Club career ==


=== Domestic ===


==== HBL ====
Abbas started his professional senior career in his native Pakistan playing for hi